since the late 1940s Americans have been
fascinated by a mysterious region in
Nevada known as area 51 as well as the
much-talked-about in long rumored UFO
crash in Roswell New Mexico a new book
attempts to separate fact from fiction
as Mollywood of cnet reports desert of
western nevada some 80 miles northwest
of Las Vegas lies the most talked-about
top secret military base in America area
51 for six decades it operated in total
secrecy even the government denied its
existence trust me is there but it
became home to conspiracy theories
involving aliens flying saucers and
high-level cover-ups newly declassified
documents finally give a glimpse into
this mysterious place and it's essential
role in the space race and the Cold War
area 51 was set up to push military
science and technology faster and
further than any other nation journalist
Annie Jacobson wrote area 51 it
chronicles what happened on that base in
the 1940s 50s and 60s she spent years
interviewing those who worked there
they're kind of a fraternity of formerly
secret spies and scientists and spy
pilots and engineers all of whom no one
another they spent most of their lives
hiding what they did at work every day
now these veterans are finally able to
talk about what went on inside the base
we went with code names I was thunder we
were dealing with Navy and Air Force
Tactical Air Command sac vikhroli had
one common goal we had a urgency of
doing our job because lives and our
military depending on what we were doing
there on this dry lakebed the CIA and
later the air force developed
groundbreaking technologies for
espionage and warfare still used by the
military today well when you look at the
drones that fight the war on terror you
can see the lineage goes directly back
to the early spy platforms at area 51
the u2 was developed there the a12
oxcart was developed their scientists
from the base were also involved in the
US nuclear weapons program
there was over a hundred atmospheric
atomic bomb tests at area 51 s nearest
neighbor which is called the nevada test
site starting in the 1950s many of the
men in my book worked on those bomb
tests but to most of the world area 51
is famously known for the alien
conspiracy theory that involves a UFO
that crashed in Roswell New Mexico
Jacobson cites an anonymous source who
gave her a surprising explanation a
flying disc really did crash in New
Mexico and then it did wind up at area
51 it did not come from Mars it came
from Russia and Jacobson source claims
there were pilots in that flying disk
not aliens but Russians this is the
information that came to me from the
source who I absolutely believe I stand
by I've spoken with him since the book
has been published and what he said was
that the child sized Aviators had been
the byproduct of this horrific human
experimentation program by Stalin in
collaboration with the doctor from
Auschwitz dr. Josef Mengele eventually
my source told me we chose to do the
same thing and that upsets a lot of
people this idea that the United States
government could have experimented on
humans the CIA hasn't commented on the
allegations but for those who worked on
the military base they can't conceive of
it happening we don't know we can you
know it's just a personal opinion
everybody's got their own opinion about
certain things I just can't picture it
because I would then be forced to said I
want to be part of it for now these men
are the only link we have to what truly
went on inside area 51 with their
stories and declassified documents we're
learning more about what really happened
beyond the gates but most of it will
always remain a mystery mollywood cnet
for CBS News